README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Ollama R Library

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The Ollama R library provides the easiest way to integrate R with
[Ollama](https://ollama.com/), which lets you run language models
locally on your own machine. For Ollama Python, see
[ollama-python](https://github.com/ollama/ollama-python). You’ll need to
have the [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) app installed on your computer to
use this library.

> Note: You should have at least 8 GB of RAM available to run the 7B
> models, 16 GB to run the 13B models, and 32 GB to run the 33B models.

See [Ollama’s Github page](https://github.com/ollama/ollama) for more
information.

## Installation

1.  You need to have the Ollama app installed on your computer. Download
    it from [Ollama](https://ollama.com/).

2.  After installing the Ollama app, you should open/launch the Ollama
    app to start the local server. Then you can run your language models
    locally, on your own machine/computer.

3.  Install the development version of `ollamar` R library like so:

``` r
devtools::install_github("hauselin/ollamar")
```

If it doesn’t work or you don’t have `devtools` installed, please run
`install.packages("devtools")` in R or RStudio first.

## Usage

``` r
library(ollamar)

test_connection()  # test connection to Ollama server; returns a httr2 response object
# Ollama local server running
# <httr2_response>

list_models()  # list available models (models you've pulled/downloaded)
# A tibble: 16 × 4
   name                     model                    parameter_size quantization_level
   <chr>                    <chr>                    <chr>          <chr>             
 1 mixtral:latest           mixtral:latest           47B            Q4_0              
 2 llama3:latest            llama3:latest            8B             Q4_0              
```

### Notes

If you don’t have the Ollama app running, you’ll get an error. Make sure
to open the Ollama app before using this library.

``` r
test_connection()
# Ollama local server not running or wrong server.
# Error in `httr2::req_perform()` at ollamar/R/test_connection.R:18:9:
```

If a function in the library returns an `httr2_response` object, you can
parse the output with `resp_process()`. `ollamar` uses the [`httr2`
library](https://httr2.r-lib.org/index.html) to make HTTP requests to
the Ollama server.

``` r
resp <- list_models(output = "resp")  # returns a httr2 response object

resp_process(resp, "df")
resp_process(resp, "jsonlist")  # list
resp_process(resp, "raw")  # raw string
resp_process(resp, "resp")  # returns the input httr2 response object
```

### Pull/download model

For the list of models you can pull/download, see [Ollama
library](https://ollama.com/library).

``` r
pull("llama3")  # returns a httr2 response object
pull("mistral-openorca")
list_models("df")  # verify you've downloaded the model
```

### Delete a model

You can see what models you’ve downloaded with `list_models()`. To
download a model, specify the name of the model.

``` r
list_models("df")  # see the models you've pulled/downloaded
delete("all-minilm:latest")  # returns a httr2 response object
```

### Chat

``` r
messages <- list(
    list(role = "user", content = "Who is the prime minister of the uk?")
)
chat("llama3", messages)  # returns a httr2 response object
chat("llama3", messages, output = "df")  # data frame/tibble
chat("llama3", messages, output = "raw")  # raw string
chat("llama3", messages, output = "jsonlist")  # list

messages <- list(
    list(role = "user", content = "Hello!"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Hi! How are you?"),
    list(role = "user", content = "Who is the prime minister of the uk?"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Rishi Sunak"),
    list(role = "user", content = "List all the previous messages.")
)
chat("llama3", messages)
```

#### Streaming responses

``` r
messages <- list(
    list(role = "user", content = "Hello!"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Hi! How are you?"),
    list(role = "user", content = "Who is the prime minister of the uk?"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Rishi Sunak"),
    list(role = "user", content = "List all the previous messages.")
)
chat("llama3", messages, stream = TRUE)
```

### Embeddings

Get the vector embedding of some prompt/text. By default, the embeddings
are normalized to length 1, which means the following:

- cosine similarity can be computed slightly faster using just a dot
  product
- cosine similarity and Euclidean distance will result in the identical
  rankings

``` r
embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?")

# don't normalize embeddings
embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?", normalize = FALSE)
```

``` r
# get embeddings for similar prompts
e1 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?")
e2 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hi, how are you?")

# compute cosine similarity
sum(e1 * e2)  # 0.9859769
sum(e1 * e1)  # 1 (identical vectors/embeddings)

# non-normalized embeddings
e3 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?", normalize = FALSE)
e4 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hi, how are you?", normalize = FALSE)
sum(e3 * e4)  # 23695.96
sum(e3 * e3)  # 24067.32
```

Commit message:

Add generate and update readme

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Ollama R Library

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The Ollama R library provides the easiest way to integrate R with
[Ollama](https://ollama.com/), which lets you run language models
locally on your own machine. For Ollama Python, see
[ollama-python](https://github.com/ollama/ollama-python). You’ll need to
have the [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) app installed on your computer to
use this library.

> Note: You should have at least 8 GB of RAM available to run the 7B
> models, 16 GB to run the 13B models, and 32 GB to run the 33B models.

See [Ollama’s Github page](https://github.com/ollama/ollama) for more
information. See also the [Ollama API documentation and
endpoints](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md).

## Installation

1.  You should have the Ollama app installed on your computer. Download
    it from [Ollama](https://ollama.com/).

2.  Open/launch the Ollama app to start the local server. You can then
    run your language models locally, on your own machine/computer.

3.  Install the development version of `ollamar` R library like so:

``` r
devtools::install_github("hauselin/ollamar")
```

If it doesn’t work or you don’t have `devtools` installed, please run
`install.packages("devtools")` in R or RStudio first.

## Usage

``` r
library(ollamar)

test_connection()  # test connection to Ollama server; returns a httr2 response object
# Ollama local server running
# <httr2_response>

list_models()  # list available models (models you've pulled/downloaded)
# A tibble: 16 × 4
   name                     model                    parameter_size quantization_level
   <chr>                    <chr>                    <chr>          <chr>             
 1 mixtral:latest           mixtral:latest           47B            Q4_0              
 2 llama3:latest            llama3:latest            8B             Q4_0              
```

### Notes

If you don’t have the Ollama app running, you’ll get an error. Make sure
to open the Ollama app before using this library.

``` r
test_connection()
# Ollama local server not running or wrong server.
# Error in `httr2::req_perform()` at ollamar/R/test_connection.R:18:9:
```

If a function in the library returns an `httr2_response` object, you can
parse the output with `resp_process()`. `ollamar` uses the [`httr2`
library](https://httr2.r-lib.org/index.html) to make HTTP requests to
the Ollama server.

``` r
resp <- list_models(output = "resp")  # returns a httr2 response object

resp_process(resp, "df")
resp_process(resp, "jsonlist")  # list
resp_process(resp, "raw")  # raw string
resp_process(resp, "resp")  # returns the input httr2 response object
```

### Pull/download model

Download a model from the ollama library (see [API
doc](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#pull-a-model)).
For the list of models you can pull/download, see [Ollama
library](https://ollama.com/library).

``` r
pull("llama3")  # returns a httr2 response object
pull("mistral-openorca")
list_models("df")  # verify you've downloaded the model
```

### Delete a model

Delete a model and its data (see [API
doc](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#delete-a-model)).
You can see what models you’ve downloaded with `list_models()`. To
download a model, specify the name of the model.

``` r
list_models("df")  # see the models you've pulled/downloaded
delete("all-minilm:latest")  # returns a httr2 response object
```

### Chat

Generate the next message in a chat (see [API
doc](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#generate-a-chat-completion)).

``` r
messages <- list(
    list(role = "user", content = "Who is the prime minister of the uk?")
)
chat("llama3", messages)  # returns a httr2 response object
chat("llama3", messages, output = "df")  # data frame/tibble
chat("llama3", messages, output = "raw")  # raw string
chat("llama3", messages, output = "jsonlist")  # list

messages <- list(
    list(role = "user", content = "Hello!"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Hi! How are you?"),
    list(role = "user", content = "Who is the prime minister of the uk?"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Rishi Sunak"),
    list(role = "user", content = "List all the previous messages.")
)
chat("llama3", messages)
```

#### Streaming responses

``` r
messages <- list(
    list(role = "user", content = "Hello!"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Hi! How are you?"),
    list(role = "user", content = "Who is the prime minister of the uk?"),
    list(role = "assistant", content = "Rishi Sunak"),
    list(role = "user", content = "List all the previous messages.")
)
chat("llama3", messages, stream = TRUE)
```

### Embeddings

Get the vector embedding of some prompt/text (see [API
doc](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#generate-embeddings)).
By default, the embeddings are normalized to length 1, which means the
following:

- cosine similarity can be computed slightly faster using just a dot
  product
- cosine similarity and Euclidean distance will result in the identical
  rankings

``` r
embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?")

# don't normalize embeddings
embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?", normalize = FALSE)
```

``` r
# get embeddings for similar prompts
e1 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?")
e2 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hi, how are you?")

# compute cosine similarity
sum(e1 * e2)  # 0.9859769
sum(e1 * e1)  # 1 (identical vectors/embeddings)

# non-normalized embeddings
e3 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hello, how are you?", normalize = FALSE)
e4 <- embeddings("llama3", "Hi, how are you?", normalize = FALSE)
sum(e3 * e4)  # 23695.96
sum(e3 * e3)  # 24067.32
```

### Generate a completion

Generate a response for a given prompt (see [API
doc](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#generate-a-completion)).

``` r
generate("llama3", "Tomorrow is a...", stream = TRUE)
generate("llama3", "Tomorrow is a...", output = "df")
generate("llama3", "Tomorrow is a...", stream = TRUE, output = "df")
```
